Used it for around 2 tanks now and it’s doing ok so far. At best. No way in hell does it produce 270mph and 765 CFM. I have the dewalt 60v blower with battery as well, which is great, but the 9AH batteries only last for 15-20 min andcost a fortune so I got this one to be able to get the entire lawn done in one go. The dewalt has a ton more power even with a way bigger nozzle but only 125mph and 600 CFM as per specs. If you are looking for a somewhat powerful blower don’t get this one.This is basically a toy…
I received this blower as a Christmas present Dec 2023. I used it for only a couple of hours in the spring and when I really needed it this fall it died after just a couple of hours more of use. I brought it to a warrant service center and was told that Husqvarna would not repair the blower as they thought the issue was due to an incorrect fuel mixture. The only fuel I had ever used was Husqvarna pre mixed fuel, which is crazy expensive. I called Husqvarna support to dispute their claim, however they have got rid of all phone support so you can now only contact them via email and never speak to a person. I emailed them 3 times and have yet to receive a response. SO, if you decide to buy any from Husqvarna you better hope you never need a warranty repair, because essentially their is NO warranty support.
I put 6 tanks of gas thru it in a 2 week period and it's starting to bog down at full throttle. This is what I'd expect after a few years, not 2 weeks. I emailed husqvarna asking if this was a common problem and if so what were the likely causes and they won't say anything besides take it to a service center. I explained that even if they fixed it for free it would take atleast 2 weeks to get back. I also explained that if they said that whatever the problem was is a maintenance issue or negligent use that I would have to pay them for the diagnosis. I asked about a return/refund and they just said to go to a service center. Defective machine and nonexistent customer service. Update - the husqvarna authorized service centers need a serial number on the proof of purchase in order to initiate warranty work with husqvarna. The Amazon invoice doesn't have this. That means that every single piece of husqvarna equipment that amazon sells is ineligible for warranty work. Husqvarna customer service has not responded to what I should do now
I bought this item to replace my hand held Husqvarna blower. i tried it on with the harness and found it to be difficult to get on due to arthritis in both shoulders. the weight of the unit was also heavy to wear. i did not put fuel in the blower as i wanted to be sure it would be comfortable first. because of the above issues i tried to return through Amazon and found the return process unusable -- it never allowed me to advance to a screen where the return was processed but rather only provided return to shopping button. i then read the return policy and found Amazon will not accept items that receive flammables liquids or gasses. the policy also stated to contact the manufacturer directly for returns and refunds. i contacted Husqvarna and they indicated they cannot process a return or refund because they are not the ones who received the initial payment. Is there someone at Amazon who can help with this?
I've attempted to use this blower multiple times but its so hard to start each time. I use the right ratio of oil/gas. Once started to seems to die within a few minutes. I would not recommend time blower. Also I should note that when I bought it, it was a amazon refurbished one, which is probably why is doesn't run right.
First start and run was flawless. Second run the engine would bog. There has never been a successful third run to date, it will not start period. My opinion is that this unit is a massive POS and I should have known better than to buy anything other than a Stihl!
Bogs out and stalls at full throttle. Read ALL, or just 2-3 of these reviews about the problems, move on and keep shopping. I’ve used this blower twice now and what they advertise about the capabilities and performance vs the actual performance of what I have experienced isn’t remotely on the same level. Multiple of these reviews are the same issue! When the manufacture will NOT assist the people who paid for their brand items, passes off their poor experiences and tells them to go spend more money to fix it, then don’t buy from them. I work hard for my money and Husqvarna needs to work harder for theirs.
The airstream on this blower is awful!! You could probably rake your leaves up faster than using this blower!!
Good blower relatively easy to start. Strong wind force. But there seems to be something wrong with the throttle. It doesn't blow at full force and when the trigger is depressed fully it shuts off. It's brand new and I don't think it's the air or gas filter. Seems to be the throttle cable tension causing the issue.
Right out of the box, after 5 mins running, it was bogging down under full throttle. Remixed some fresher fuel, even though what I had worked fine in my other equipment. still no change, Fortunately I found the correct needle adjustment tool, a good 1/2 turn out made the difference between keeping it and sending it back. Really should not have been set up so lean.s off. It's brand new and I don't think it's the air or gas filter. Seems to be the throttle cable tension causing the issue.
bad gass lines broken,,, local service not helpful since bought on linewill not stay at 100% buy local
Like a lot of the other poor reviews, they mention any sort of support (or lack there of).If your machine works straight out of the box, with no broken parts, you more than likely have a good machine that will run for years if taken care of.If not, prepare for coming to terms with disappointment:My plug wire from the ignition module was flopping when I took it out of the box. Never added fuel, never even attempted to start it.Figured I would return the item for another since it was defective: nope, Amazon wont take it and directs you to Manufacturer. Ok...Called Husqvarna, and get in the ever lasting loop of go to website. Website directs you to go to a service center... Ok cool, but most centers have a wait time, and none all that close (second one is my problem and totally accept, but shouldn't even be an issue with a brand new machine).Any of these things on its own would be a minor annoyance, but all together is ridiculous. How is this 100% my problem, when the only thing I did was trust you would send me a working product?In the end, I took care of it myself. Blower is great, performs as expected after I replaced the coil that was $110.Amazon, I get you cant take it back if it had fuel in it, but to 100% deny the return when it has only been unboxed is silly at best.Husqvarna, man I don't even know where to begin with you. We have a couple of your machines here, and all have run great for years, and the first time we do have an issue, we can't even get a little help.Disappointed to say the least.
Just bought this Husqvarna 150BT blower and followed the assembly and starting directions precisely. However, the blower just won't start. After several attempts, waiting 20 minutes between attempts, I try reaching out to Husqvarna customer support. It is impossible to speck with a live technician and all the AI support does is repeat what is in the Operators manual. I then tried finding a service center in my local area and, after a half-hour of that, finally found one who told me they are three-weeks out before being able to get to me and that, since I purchased the product on Amazon rather than an Husqvarna dealer, any service needed would not be covered under the warranty and I will have to pay for any troubleshooting/repairs. Don't buy this product!!!
So, bought this bc my yard was too much for my trusty EGO530 (which still works perfect after several years). Thought I did my research. Out of the box it will start but dies when trying to throttle. Thought it might be bad Husqvarna fuel (yes, bought 3 cans to extend the warranty). Drained and replaced. Ran a little then starting failing again. Contacted seller CPO through Amazon. Discovered that the unit is "certified remanufactured" so not actually a new unit. CPO instructed me to take it to an authorized service repair to have it fixed. The repair shop said I have to pay $60 and it will take 4-5 weeks. So even with Prime day I'm now ~$280 Blower + $100 for 3 cans of fuel (yes, that's a rip off). I haven't blown the first leaf and it has to be repaired. Ultimately, the reseller did NOT take care of me. I also contacted Husqvarna but they have not returned my call after a week. As always, Amazon made it right for me! That said, I'm done with CPO and Husqvarna. Probably should have bought a Stihl. Hope this helps someone!
I manage a beautiful property in DE. Six acres, landscaped with lots of trees. Years ago someone recommended this blower to me so I got one to try. I loved it! Easy to use ,plenty of power, good environmental rating, etc. I was so happy with it that after the first one got worn out I immediately purchased another one. Over the years I have gone through 2 or 3, but I have always been satisfied with the performance and time it lasted. This year my current one was starting to show signs of wearing out, so as usual I ordered another, so that I wouldn't be without one during the fall season. This time however, when I started to use it I couldn't believe the difference!! Twice the noise and half the power!! At first I thought maybe I got a defective unit? So, I ordered another one just to compare and, nope, same thing. I am so frustrated with this. Amazon wont help at all. They just tell you to go to a dealer. Good luck with that! anyway, I recommend staying away from this brand at this time!
