I decided to treat myself after my handheld Homelite decided to kick the bucket for good.This blower is very powerful and makes short work of blowing off my driveways.I also use it to blow off my lawn tractor after mulching the back of the property which includes a very dusty portion where the grass is thin. It's usually the last tool I use when I'm doing my lawn maintenance and it makes for very quick work.The large tank allows me to get several uses before I need to fill it back up.
I got this wonderful machine just in time for fall leaf cleanup. Assembly took 5-10 minutes. It holds enough gas for at least 45 minutes of heavy usage and it's comfortable to wear. This is the only back pack blower I've ever used so I don't have anything to compare it to but it seems very powerful, even moving large wet leaves with ease. It starts in 3 to 4 pulls every time. It comes with enough 2 stroke oil to mix one gallon of fuel. I highly recommend this tool!
Blows away wet leaves 4' from the nozzle. Plenty of power.Gas tank run time is good. Does cause back strain that's tolerable.Easy to start and assembly went easy. Blows away my old McCulloch handheld.Worth the 299 and would recommend to a friend. Have s Husky mowerand chainsaw that are top notch too.
So far I only got to use it once, but I was really impressed with the ease of starting and the the harness system.
For the price this is a very powerful and very easy to start blower. You can use if for hours and it isn't too heavy or tiresome.
Got the Husky BT150 leaf blower today. Right out of box after I put together followed instructions on starting the second pull started. The choke and primer bulb really easy to get to and the choke really easy to set. Have tried restarting several times now start on first or second pull. Blew some mulch and leaves with it pushed them really good. Will really test it good this fall when these big oaks start dropping leaves. Hope it lasts a long time.
Fits good on the back and it comfortable enough. You’ll wanna get some decent hearing protection this thing is pretty loud. Only thing I don’t like is the blower chute or discharge hose whatever you call it don’t have a way of taking it off for storage other than losing off the hose clamp and backing it off for storage sakes. CFM is good it slings leaves across the ground the way I expected.
I'll admit I wasn't the most impressed with this blower at first. While it certainly moved the leaves better than the handheld electric blower that I was replacing, it wasn't quite blowing the way I had thought it would.Fast forward to me blowing the leaves in my backyard and the extension accidentally falls off because it had worked its way loose. I guess I hadn't twisted it well enough. I was going to put it right back on but tested out the blower without it on. Well that certainly made a difference! Complete game changer. If you really want the leaves to move, do yourself a favor and leave off the tapered extension part of the blower. You'll be thankful that you did. It was way more powerful and cut the blowing time way down as well. I have a city lot with 7 large/mature oak trees, and they drop a ton of leaves.The blower is kind of heavy for me as a woman, but I didn't expect it to be light. I've had shoulder surgery, and though it was a little sore after using it, it wasn't too bad. I'd definitely recommend using the straps that go across your chest and stomach to help distribute the weight. Overall a great blower since I figured out how to make it better for me. You will need ear protection. I bought a cheap set on Amazon that work well.
I have had only two short sessions with this leaf blower. Based on that: 1. Unit is heavier than it looks, or I'm just getting old. It's a beast to place on the back. (And I'm coming from a Ryobi backpack unit.) 2. Webbing with which to secure the unit in place is a bit unwieldly. Maybe I'll figure it out. 3. Easy to start, First pull out of the shipping box and it took off, never hesitating. 4. Power might be an issue. Haven't figured out if the "speed enhancer" placed at the end of the nozzle is workable. Any lawn-care professionals I see don't use it. I live on the edge of woods, and hope to "effortlessly" blow leaves out of my yard. This unit has 20% more engine size than my Ryobi; I'm hoping for success with the leaves.
I have had this machine for a month now to blow leaves on the church property. There wasn't much to do other than assembling the air tube and throttle which was quite simple to do. I put in the mixed gas and followed the easy-to-follow instructions, and it started on the second pull.This thing is powerful! I had a blanket of Quaking Aspen leaves about 6" thick and it blew them without any problem. I was able to blow them into huge piles on the edge of the property where I promptly burned them. I then used the blower to encourage a hotter fire.I have used it a couple of times since and it starts on the first or second pull. Today I used it to blow freshly fallen snow in below freezing temperatures. I store the blower in an unheated outdoor garden shed. I pulled it out, pumped the primer a couple of times and it started on the very first pull. I then easily blew all the snow, about 1" thick, off of all the walkways of the property.I do highly recommend this Husqvarna blower if you are looking for a powerful back-pack blower.!
We bought a house on a lot with mature pine, oak and other “shedding” trees. The property had not been maintained in years so we were in the market for a leaf blower.The blower had to be powerful enough to manage deep, wet, compact leaves, sticks and small rocks. It also needed to to be light, well balanced, easy to start and simple to refuel.Husqvarna Checked all of the boxes!Anyone who can use a mower can use this blower. The pull string to start requires minimal effort if you prime the engine well. I am a medium sized woman in my mid-50s. Four weeks after having carpal tunnel surgery on both hands, I was able to start the engine with no assistance.Simple to put on and adjust. The padded harness clasps are at appropriate chest and waist levels. The harness stays tight while blower is operating.It is a little heavy but blower’s weight is well distributed so it is easy to manage without having to adjust during use.One tank of fuel lasts far longer than anticipated. Longest continuous use to date was just over 2 hours. Fuel is easily added.Note: we’ve decided to use premixed fuel exclusively. Initially it seemed obvious to mix fuel ourselves because it can be less expensive. However, after doing research, we learned that pump gas has additives that can cause problems in the blowers engine.
Well designed, back support, shoulder and chest straps keep it from moving around. Big gas tank. Takes some practice to get leaves to move in the direction you want. Even at idle speed it's moving leaves, if you need to pick up branches or move something make sure the nozzle is pointed up so it won't blow leaves into an area already swept. And don't blow leaves on a windy day.
Get it! Trust me! It is so usefull if you have a decent sized yard. I had a handheld one that last a long time. But I just had too many leaves!This thing sat in my cart for months waiting to pull the trigger, but then winter came and I was charging my handheld 2-3 times a day! I had to buy a backpack!Make sure you also have a gas can at home! You will need to go to the gas station and get ethanol free gas and mix it with the oil provided! It would not hurt to buy something to mix the gas and oil together! I also bought extra oil!I had to watch a YouTube video to assemble, but that was fairly easy! Turning it on was pretty easy if you follow instructions!!!
Wow, just Wow! I have a hand leaf blower I thought was good. I bought this Husqvarna 150PB and it arrived yesterday. I followed the quick guide to put the tubes on the unit, adjusted the shoulder and chest straps to fit. Poured the premixed gas and oil, primed 10 times and Wala, I pulled the rope 2 times and it started, strapped this bad boy on and walked to my drainage ditch covered already in leaves. I cleaned the 120 ft ditch in less than 10 minutes and I'm 70 yrs old. I suggest placing the blower on an elevated surface to make it easier to strap it to your back because it's a little heavy to lift from the ground and get it on your back. I have a pain stimulator implanted in my back and was concerned of the padded back. No problems for me to walk with it for about 20 - 30 min. I haven't tried the smallest tube outlet yet, but highly recommend this unit. I have an acre with 9 trees. I'll try it out when snow arrives to clear my 103 ft gravel driveway. Highly recommend this blower from my 1st trial useage. It rained before I used it and it still cleared the wet leaves and even the small sticks. It's a little loud ( no surprise) I suggest ear protection and nice the exhaust blows to the rear instead out the side. Someone ask me what the Newtons was: Newtons 22 765 CFM and 270 MPH.
This blower had me really disappointed at first. I thought, what in the world is up with the power on this thing?? All the specs on it led me to believe that it should be annihilating my leaves. The power seemed like it was there, but the air coming out was less than half of what it advertised. To make a long story short, the end tip attachment was stuck inside the rubber flex hose… I pulled this piece out, attached it to the end of the hose and this blower cranked like a beast! It made quick work of a driveway covered in wet maple leaves. I am using the Husqvarna premixed fuel. So what started out as an angry review of how horrible this blower was, ended up with me feeling like an idiot… It’s an incredible blower for the price.
